Replace "Mesh Expansion" with "VM Support" and related edits. (#5215)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/examples/vm-bookinfo/index.md

---
title: Bookinfo on Virtual Machines

> description: Run the Bookinfo application on virtual machines within your mesh.

Reviewer: This title and description are totally wrong. This example is not running Bookinfo on virtual machines. It is running Bookinfo on Kubernetes and adding one dependent service (MySQL), running on a VM. The difference between this and the similar egress approach (https://deploy-preview-5215--preliminary-istio.netlify.com/blog/2018/egress-tcp/) is that in this example the VM service is being added to the mesh, instead of accessed as an external service. It is "expanding the mesh" with a VM service.

Author: I agree with @frankbu that a different title is probably better to make clear that this is just adding a service running in a VM to a microservice-architected app running on Kubernetes. However, the left navigation doesn't like long titles, which limit the amount of nuance I can introduce. Would the following alternatives be better?
```suggestion
title: Bookinfo with Virtual Machines
description: Run the Bookinfo application with a MySQL service running in a virtual machine within your mesh.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer to fix the title to make its clear, e.g. "Adding a VM to a mesh"

"Mesh Expansion" is a wording I've **never** heard from users to describe how to enmesh VMs, despite our docs saying it for a while. So I'm suggesting we stop using that specific word. ("Mesh Expansion" doesn't even say "VM" anywhere in it)

Having an example that had bidirectional traffic from the VM would be even better, but we don't have to hold this change for having that.

Reviewer 2: Or maybe "Bookinfo with adding VM-based services"

Reviewer: I'm not so fond of the term "Mesh Expansion" either, not sure who coined it. That said, I think the important point is that this is about "adding a non-k8s service to a k8s mesh". If we can come up with a general term that we add to the glossary (like we did with "Multicluster", "Multi mesh", etc.), then the title of this one could just be "Bookinfo <general term>".

Since the added service could be running on bare metal or a VM (it's all just a matter of network connectivity), the general term should not just be VM-based. "multi-runtime mesh", "heterogeneous runtime mesh",  I don't know.

Reviewer 2: I think we shouldn't invent a new term. VMs are a very common use case, and these docs are specifically about VMs. I think we should correctly describe how this example works with a VM, **using the term VM**. We could put as a side-note that these instructions also work for bare metal, if we want to.

I hear over and over from customers that they don't believe Istio supports VMs. (I never hear "Istio doesn't support bare metal") I'm specifically advocating for using "VM" so that it's clear that we do support VMs.

weight: 60
keywords:
- virtual-machine, vms
aliases:
- /docs/examples/integrating-vms/
- /docs/examples/mesh-expansion/bookinfo-expanded
---

> This example deploys the Bookinfo services across Kubernetes and a set of

Reviewer: ... accross Kubernetes and one virtual machine

* Deploy the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application (in the `bookinfo` namespace).

> * Create a VM named 'vm-1' in the same project as Istio cluster, and [Join the Mesh]/docs/tasks/virtual-machines/single-network/).

Reviewer 2: Is this example meant to be in a GCP-specific environment? "project" is a GCP word, not a generic word.

Reviewer: This example, as written, is GCP-specific. For that reason, I don't think it's appropriate to elevate it to a top level example like this. Unless it can be rewritten more generically, and tested, I think it should probably be moved to a blog.

Author: @frankbu I'm going through the text to remove any references to GCP. Would that adress your concern?

Reviewer 3: Could we use "environment" as the genetic term here instead of project?

Reviewer: @rcaballeromx It's not quite that simple. This example is currently assuming that the VM is created using [these instructions](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/examples/mesh-expansion/single-network/) which are also Google specific. Before I think it would be appropriate to make this a top level example, I think it needs to be changed to add options to do it with either network pattern, [single network](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/examples/mesh-expansion/single-network/) or [multi-network](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/examples/mesh-expansion/multi-network/). It would also need to be tested both ways to make sure it works.

Btw, I also think that the [single network](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/examples/mesh-expansion/single-network/) instructions should be made more general so as not to specifically use Google commands.

It seems to me that there is more work to do with these mesh-expansion examples than just move them and tweak some wording. I think a similar problem exists with the [multicluster bookinfo example](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/examples/multicluster/gke/#deploy-bookinfo-example-across-clusters). It should also be redone to work in a single or multi-network environment. I think we need to start opening issues, and hopefully get some people to help.

Author: @frankbu I agree with you that the content needs a lot of work to not only make it more platform agnostic, but also to update it to use some of the recently added features.
That said, this is just a first step with the following goals:

    - Provide clarity to users that are not familiar with the term "mesh expansion" and who are confused that there appears to be no content in istio.io related to VMs.
    - Ensure that all the VM related content can be found in a single place.
I'm updating the PR based on your feedback, but keep in mind that this is only the first step in a marathon.
We will need to iterate on this content moving forwards based on the feedback we get from the community and our users too.

> * Create a VM named 'vm-1' in the same project as Istio cluster, and [Join the Mesh]/docs/tasks/virtual-machines/single-network/).

Reviewer 4: The link had its leading ( removed.
